[MUSIC]
So we'll talk a little bit about
protocols, network protocols,
Internet protocols specifically and
what their responsibilities are.
We won't go into great depth.
But we want to give you a flavor of what's
contained inside these protocols and
what they define.
So what does the protocol do?
An Internet Protocol, it does a lot.
An Internet Protocol, meaning IP or
TCP or UDP, they do several things.
One basic thing is
provide a naming scheme.
Actually that's a very important thing.
So IP,
you've probably heard of an IP address.
That comes from the Internet Protocol and
it's a unique address that
every network component has.
Every component on the Internet
has to have an IP address, and so
each host and router gets assigned at
least one of these Internet addresses.
Now when you say least one, basically it
should be one to every network adapter.
But a particular machine can
have many network adapters.
By network adapter,
I mean hardware interfaces to the network.
So if you look at a laptop,
you'll often have a wi-fi adapter, but
you'll also have a wired adapter and
a wired ethernet jack.
You might not.
Depends on your laptop,
but you might have an ethernet jack
where you can plug into the wall, right?
So, you might have two
network adapters there.
Two ethernet Internet network adapters.
So you might get two IP addresses,
one for each.
Usually you focus on one, but
it's possible to have more.
So, Internet protocol,
one very important thing it does is it
gives this naming scheme,
this unique naming scheme.
Every machine on the Internet
has to have a different name.
And now there are problems with this,
right,
because IP addresses are not that long.
IP addresses are four byte numbers,
four single bytes, so
you've seen them referred to as these,
let's see like 124.254.27.33.
Okay, and
they're four numbers separated by dots.
So it's four numbers and
each number can range from 0 to 255.
So there aren't that many addresses
compared to how many network
components there are these day,
because of IOT.
There's so many things on a network.
You need so many addresses.
So there are a lot of challenges
in dealing with that.
We won't really cover those right now.
But the idea is everything on the network
has to have a unique IP address.
Also, these protocols
provide a delivery mechanism.
So what we mean by that is that whenever
you send a message from one machine
to another machine, you gotta go
through a sequence of machines, okay?
You've gotta define a packet, a chunk of
data, and it's gotta be sent from machine
to machine to machine because these
machines are not directly wired together.
They're not within radio range directly.
There has to be a route taken, so it has
to hop from one machine to the next.
So these protocols define
methods of doing routing.
Of how you send a message through
a sequence of machines to get to
the destination you wanna go to,
that's one important role.
Another thing is that
it defines the header.
All right?
The header and the payload.
So by header, if you look at any packet.
You can usually break it up into header
and payload, maybe footer too, but
let's just talk about header.
So, payload is the actual
data that you want to send.
The header is the information
that is sort of metadata.
It's about the packet, but
it's not the actual payload of the packet,
not the important part of the packet.
It's not the data you want to send.
But it has information about the packet.
Now generally the header information
comes from the network protocols.
So the data in the network protocol,
that the network protocol uses,
it gets put into the header, typically.
So we'll look at that a little bit, here.
So yeah and like I said I
brought this up last lecture.
Citizen ban radio,
you say over at the end of talking and
roger means data received and so on.
So that would be called footer.
So you say a message and then at
the end of your message you say over.
And that word over is actually
added to the end of the message.
So the payload is the text.
So say I say something like, hello,
my name is Ian Harris, over.
Hello, my name is Ian Harris,
that's the actual payload.
And then the over is overhead, we call
that footer because its at the end.
But, text that you put, something that you
add to the beginning you'd call header.
And header and footer same thing
a beginning and an end but
its the same thing.
Excess overhead data is required to
help you adhere to the protocol but
its not the actual data
that you want to send.
So, these rules enable
efficient communication.
These rules, these header and
footer rules,
the data you put in them, you need that so
that at the receiving end you know like,
for instance, with CB, you know oh,
I heard the word, over.
That means I can talk now, right?
So, in order to establish
efficient communication,
you need that information that's
contained in the header and footer.
And, for instance,
with routing and the Internet,
some of that information inside
the header will be important for routing.
Things like this.
So, all the different functions
that these protocols handle,
they use information inside
the header typically to do that.
There are many different tasks
that are performed by protocols,
by network protocols.
A lot of different tasks.
And we can't go into
details of all of those.
But some of those are routing, you know,
figuring out a route sequence of machines
to send a packet through
to get to its destination.
Flow control, right?
So making sure that you
don't have a bottleneck.
That all of your traffic isn't
going through one router.
That you spread it out
over different routers so
that you can get good traffic flow.
Arbitration.
Arbitration means when you have some
kind of a network segment where
only one packet can travel at a time and
two packets want to travel.
So say two machines want to send messages
on this one piece of network segment
at the same time.
Then, somehow you have to arbitrate.
You have to figure out which
one gets to go first, right?
So, there are rules for
all these things, and
all these rules are encoded
inside the network protocols.
So, the protocols define those rules.
What do you do when two machines want
to talk on the same wire at the same
time, right?
The set of rules,
that's called network protocol.
When you want to send a machine message
from A to B, how do you figure out what
the next node is that you want
to send your message to, right?
That's defined by the protocols and so on.
So, these protocols are very
complicated in general.
And because they are so
complicated, what people have done, is
they've divided the protocols into layers.
So, OSI, open system interconnect model,
OSI model.
It presents what's
called a protocol stack.
Classification protocol.
So it takes all the things that
these network protocols do and
it divides them up.
So routing is one layer.
Flow control is another layer.
Arbitration is maybe another layer, right?
It just separates them.
Now, all these layers
have to be taken care of,
but the separation is generally good for
coding frankly.
Because writing one piece of code that
handles all those complex tasks at once,
it would be one nasty piece of code.
So it makes a lot of sense to cut that
code up, to separate the responsibilities
across different layers, and then write
different pieces of code for each layer.
And then let the different
layers of code work together.
So that's what the OSI model does.
It proposes a set of layers.
Now the Internet uses a similar set of
layers, maybe a more compressed version
of that, but definitely the idea of
taking all these complicated tasks and
dividing them amongst
different layers of protocols
is a good thing to reduce the complexity
and make the coding more manageable.
So each layer has it's
own responsibilities, and
each layer uses different data.
So different data usually in the header,
right?
So for instance, if you're looking at
routing, there's a layer that's doing
routing, you're gonna need to use
routing information in the header, and
actually place routing
information in the header.
Where, if on the other hand,
if your working on float control, right?
And flow control's maybe at a different
layer, then flow control doesn't
necessarily need to know the routing
information, not the details of it.
But it might need to know
the capacity at a node,
how many messages can a particular
node take at one time.
So that would be different information
that also might be present in the header,
or something like that.
So each, or not in the header,
but they definitely,
each layer uses different types
of information to do its job.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]